# rl-qlearning-assignment
Module 9 assignment 
The training process begins with the agent exploring its environment through a trial and error approach. The environment resets at the start of each episode allowing the agent to begin in a fresh state, and test various actions. Using the epsilon greedy strategy the agent initially prioritizes exploration. As training progresses and the epsilon value decays, it shifts toward exploitation, choosing the action with the highest known Q value to maximize its efficiency.  The agent executes it and observes the resulting reward and new state. This feedback is used to update the table using the Bellman Equation, which calculates the difference between the current predicted reward and the actual reward received plus the discounted potential of the next state. This  step  allows the agent to teach the taxi how to navigate while avoiding penalties.  After the training episodes are complete, the agent's performance is tested using a greedy policy to ensure it has learned the optimal path. By plotting a moving average of total rewards. the graph shows a sharp rise as the agent stops making penalized moves and begins successfully completing runs,and leveling off once it has figured out the map.

Reflections 
The hyperparameters interact to balance how the agent learns from new information, values rewards, and explores its environment. Alpha determines how newly acquired information overrides old information. With a high alpha the agent updates its Q values based on recent experiences. While this can lead to faster learning, it may cause the Q-table to become unstable or fluctuate if rewards are noisy. With low alpha the agent learns more slowly, requiring more episodes, but it can result  in more stable values. Gamma determines the importance of future rewards compared to immediate ones. With a high gamma the agent will prioritize long term success and cumulative future rewards. With low gamma the agent will focus on the immediate reward from the next action. Epsilon controls the trade-off between trying new actions and using known high reward actions. The agent explores the environment more frequently by choosing random actions with high epsilon. Epsilon typically decreases over time. This allows the agent to explore heavily in the beginning and transition to exploiting its knowledge as it becomes more confident in its Q  table.


An example of another use of RL is to teach robotic arms how to grasp irregular objects or navigate warehouses. Unlike traditional programming, RL allows the robot to adapt through trial and error.
